---
layout: post
title: "R introduction"
description: "Introduce how to install R"
category: "Programming"
tags: ["R"]
---

# Installation

Please visit the offical website to choose a download mirror.

[http://cran.r-project.org/mirrors.html](http://cran.r-project.org/mirrors.html)

For terminal users, you can also install by command, for example,

    sudo yum install R

# Check and Run

In order to check if R is installed, you can type,

    R --version

If you can see similar information below, then congradulation, you did it.

	[zhipeng@localhost Desktop]$ R --version
	R version 3.0.1 (2013-05-16) -- "Good Sport"
	Copyright (C) 2013 The R Foundation for Statistical Computing
	Platform: x86_64-redhat-linux-gnu (64-bit)

	R is free software and comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
	You are welcome to redistribute it under the terms of the
	GNU General Public License versions 2 or 3.
	For more information about these matters see
	http://www.gnu.org/licenses/.

To run R, just type `R`, you can see the command interface.

	[zhipeng@localhost Desktop]$ R

	R version 3.0.1 (2013-05-16) -- "Good Sport"
	Copyright (C) 2013 The R Foundation for Statistical Computing
	Platform: x86_64-redhat-linux-gnu (64-bit)

	R is free software and comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.
	You are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions.
	Type 'license()' or 'licence()' for distribution details.

	  Natural language support but running in an English locale

	R is a collaborative project with many contributors.
	Type 'contributors()' for more information and
	'citation()' on how to cite R or R packages in publications.

	Type 'demo()' for some demos, 'help()' for on-line help, or
	'help.start()' for an HTML browser interface to help.
	Type 'q()' to quit R.

	> 

ENJOY IT!


