---
layout: post
title: "Python Note (3)"
description: "Notes for python, in particular for those useless grammars"
category: "Programming"
tags: ["Python"]
---

# Preface

这实习真tm的累，不知道是不是因为我自己效率太低下了。决定了，从明天开始不上校内跟微博了，全新全意做开发。

Python每天学这么半个小时，感觉太慢了，而且vim还有好多东西我都不会，要多加练习。

对了，今天是七夕，debug得我头疼，心情老不爽了，说不上为什么。

**ps**, Alt+Shift to change input language.

# Python function

## Function define

    #!/usr/bin/python
    # Filename: function1.py

	def sayHello():
	    print 'hello world!'
	sayHello()

## Function with parameters

    #!/usr/bin/python
    # Filename: func_param.py

	def printMax(a, b):
	    if a > b:
			print a, 'is maximum'
		else:
			print b, 'is maximum'
	
	printMax(3, 4)

	x = 5
	y = 7

	printMax(x, y)

## Global variable

You can change the value of variable inside a funcion.

    #!/usr/bin/python
    # Filename: func_global.py

	def func():
	    global x
		print 'x is ', x
		x = 2
		print 'changed local x to ', x

	x = 50
	func()
	print 'Value of x is ', x

And the result is:

    $ python func_global.py
	x is 50
	Changed global x to 2
	Value of x is 2

## Default parameters

You can allocate a default value for the parameter of functions,

    #!/usr/bin/python
    # Filename: func_default.py

	def say(message, times = 1):
		print message * times
	
	say('helloworld')
	say('helloworld', 5)

## DocString

You can print format document by adding comments and `__doc__`

    #!/usr/bin/python
    # Filename: func_doc.py

	def printMax(x, y):
		'''Prints the maximum of two numbers.

		The two values must be integers.'''
		x = int(x) # convert to integers, if possible
		y = int(y)

		if x > y:
			print x, 'is maximum'
		else:
			print y, 'is maximum'

	printMax(3, 5)
	print printMax.__doc__

The output could be

    $ python func_doc.py
	5 is maximum
	Prints the maximum of two numbers.

			The two values must be integers.

Triditionally, doc string has multiple lines, each line starts with a capital letter and ends with point. The second line is blank, more details start from the third line.

Actually, `__doc__` is a property of `printMax`


